♪ [music] ♪
Hello everybody, Wes Bos here.
Hopefully, you're having a great day.
Today we are going to be making
this pretty sweet CSS clock.
Now, what this does is it takes in
the current time from JavaScript
and it's going to update these hands,
second hands that we've got going on here,
based on the current hour, minute,
second that we are seeing.
So let's take a look at our HTML
that we've got going on here.
We've got a div with a class of clock.
We have a clock face which is this circle
here, and then we have three
separate divs for hand, hand, hand,
which is our hour, our minute, and
our second. Now, let's open that up.
This is the answer. This is sort of what
we're going for with this realistic tick
and we're going to write the CSS that
is important to getting this done.
So I've specifically left that part out.
So here we go, this is what it looks like
by default. I've got these three hand
divs. We go ahead and inspect, then we can
inspect this hand div. And you'll see that
all three of them are just stacked upon
each other. The idea that we're going for
here is that we're going to apply a rotate
to each of the hands depending on what
time it currently is. So how do we do
that? Well, you could just go to this.
Let's try the second hand.
We'd say, transform, rotate 20 degrees.
Now, the problem that we're going to have
here is, by default, it's going to rotate
itself on the exact middle of the element.
And in most cases, that's exactly what you
want. But in this case, it's not what we
want at all. What we want to do is
we want to rotate it on the very
right-hand side. So that's right in the
middle here. And that's what we're
going to go into our CSS where it says
".hand" and we are going to
transform the origin.
Now, the origin is where it's going to do
the rotation off of. So we're going to
say, transform origin. We're just going to
say, 100%. And that we'll do along the
x-axis. By default, it's 50%, so if I were
to change that to 50% and I were to
transform it, you see, it's just in the
middle. But if I were to change that
origin up to...See, as I move this
origin, it changes where it goes off of
and a 100% along the x-axis will put that
pivot point on the very right-hand side.
That's why we change it to 100%. Now,
that's going to allow us to pivot them
all. The other problem now is that
because divs are block and they're left to
right, it's not actually starting at
12:00. So how do we do that?
Well, we could just rotate the entire
thing by default, 90 degrees.
So I'm going to say, transform, rotate,
90 degrees. Okay, good.
Now we've got all of our hands
pointing up and down.
Then the final thing we want to do is we
want to apply a bit of a transition.
If I put a rotate on here you'll see that
as it's 20 to 120, to 20 to 120,
to however many, it just immediately goes.
So we can go in here and we can say,
transition, all, .05 seconds. Now when we
rotate, it's going to transition itself
and that's going to be every second
it'll tick itself around.
Now, you might like that but what's kind
of cool about this is you can also do
something like this where you can say,
transition timing function and give it
like, any one of these like ease in out.
You can just pick whatever one you want,
you can try it out. You see how it eases
itself in and out? You might like that as
well. But if you click on this little
cubic bezier editor, you can actually make
some pretty fun ones, where, if you just
jack it right up like this, now when you
change it, it gives you this tick. It goes
forward and back, forward and back.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take that transition timing function
and pop that in. Then I'm also going to
take this down to 0.05 seconds, just nice
and quick. So let's see what it
looks like when we do that.
Transform, there we go.
That gives us the nice, snappy
little tick, tick, tick, tick, tick.
That's exactly what we're looking for,
where it will go a little bit over
its bounds and then it will snap back.
And because we did it so quickly,
it gives us sort of that
realistic ticking feature.
Good. So we did our transform margin,
our transform, our transition,
and our transition timing function of
cubic bezier. Now let's actually write the
JavaScript that's going to update how we
are so far. Let's start with our second
hand just because that updates most
often and we're going to see it tick,
tick, tick, all the way around. So first
thing we need to do is create a function
called set date and that's just going to
console log "hi." And then we need that
to run, how often? Well, every second.
So how do you run something every second?
You give yourself a set interval which
is going to be a set date, and that is
going to run every second which is
1000 milliseconds. Now let's see if
that's working. Hi, hi, hi, okay, good.
That's working for us. However, we don't
want to console log hi, we want to grab
the date. Say, const now equals
new date. And then the seconds
is going to be now dot get seconds.
And let's console log the seconds,
56, 57, 58, okay. So what that is doing is
it's getting us the seconds of the current
minute. Now, how do we turn that into a
degree? Well first we need to turn it into
something that is base 100 so that we can
get like...at zero, it's going to be zero
degrees. At 100%, it's going to 360
degrees. So we will go down here and say
const seconds degrees equals. We're
going to say seconds divided by 60 and
that's going to give us our percentage
that we have. And we're going to multiply
that by 360 because that
would be our full.
So if it's 60 divided by 60, it's going to
be one times 360, that's going to be 360
degrees. Then we can finally just take our
second hand, which we have not yet
selected. We can select it.
You can either select it like, inside,
outside and pass it in. I'm just going to
select it outside here and reach outside
to grab it. However, depending on how you
like to design your functions, you can
pass it in as well.
So I want to say const second hand
equals document dot query selector.
Then we have to take that second hand
and we'll apply some styles to it.
Second hand dot style dot transform is
going to be equal to, we'll use some ES6
template literals here. Rotate. How many
degrees? Usually it'd be like, 100 degrees
but that is going to be in
the seconds degrees.
Good. So that should get us most of the
way there. Let's see where we're at.
Okay, makes sense. But the one problem is
here. I'm almost at 60 seconds but I'm not
even nearly halfway through. And the
problem we're having here is because we
initially offset it by 90 degrees because
it's by default, left to right, and we
want it by default, top to bottom.
What we need to do is just take this,
that's why I wrapped these in parentheses,
and we'll add 90 degrees to offset that
default 90 degrees that we're
sort of working with here.
Let's see where we're at now. Here we go,
15, 16, good. Now, pause the video and
I want to see you do both minutes
and hours. It's probably a little
self-explanatory, but try to do it
yourself. Otherwise, come back
and we'll do the rest together.
So we're going to say const mins equals
now dot get minutes. Const mins degrees,
equal to mins divided by 60
times 360 plus 90.
Then we'll say second hand. Again,
we need to go up here, second hand,
mins hand, and also, let's get
the hour hand as well. Okay.
Then we're down here. Say, hour hand
dot style dot transform equals,
we'll take this exact same thing but we'll
replace it with the minutes degrees
rather than that.
Let's see. My editor is yelling at me,
I forgot something here.
Oh, put a parenthesis there, there we go.
Oh, got a problem. Cannot set property
transform of undefined because you've got
to spell style right, otherwise it won't
work. Learn to spell, folks. There we go.
Both of those two are now working.
You're going to have to wait a full minute
to see it to actually work. Then finally,
we'll do the hours one. It's going to be
divided by 12 instead of 60. And then we
will take our hour hand, oops. This one is
hour hand, this one should be min hand.
Mins hand. Take the hours degree in there.
Awesome. Looks like it is all working for
us, it's all running.
One little thing that does happen,
you might notice that when you hit the
60 seconds, you're going to hit
almost 360 degrees and then
all of the sudden, it goes to 2 degrees.
And it's not going to transform
itself from right here to right here.
Let's just wait for this to happen.
All right, you see how this is about to
clock over? Oh, we get that little weird
whoop. And what's happening is it gets to
that final amount of degrees and then we
go to transform 0 degrees or 90 degrees
right there. And it goes all the way
backwards to get to where it wants,
rather than just going forward.
So, a couple things you could do here is
you could just tally the amount of degrees
and just keep on counting. Or another
thing you could do is, temporarily,
with JavaScript, take off the transition
so that when it ticks to that next one
it's not going to go transition itself
backwards. And then reapply it after.
And that would be done with some
if statements inside of the set date.
Other than that, that's today's one,
and I will see you tomorrow.
♪ [music] ♪